
# **General overview of the format**

Every generator primitive like data(tables, file embed, etc..), or commands to generate data 
(enums, structs, types, global, etc...) are represented at the top level by @<primitive_name>
It also contains primitives like gen_h_file, gen_c_file, gen_hpp_file, gen_cpp_file  
eg: 
```
@table(Funcs)
@enum(FuncKind)
@enum_to_string_table(FuncKindToString)
@func_globals(FuncGlobals)
@custom(FuncCustom)


@gen_h_file(func)
@gen_c_file(func)
@gen_hpp_file(func)
@gen_cpp_file(func)
```

Primitives may or may not have sub primitives and feilds
eg:
```
@table(Funcs) {

$cols = {name, type_name, args, ret} // field

$rows =  // field
{ 
    { Add,               add_op_ft,                 `int x, int y`,        int },
    { Sub,               sub_op_ft,                 `int x, int y`,        int },
    { Mul,               mul_op_ft,                 `int x, int y`,        int }
}

}

@enum(FuncKind) {
	@requires(Funcs f) // sub primitive

	$identifier = #concat(`FK_`, f.name) // field
}
```

# **Expression**

Fields are containers for expressions that at the bottom most leaf should evaluate to a string.
The Expression can be an array of expressions, and operation expression, or a string value
expression

<!--  todo -> expressions in sub primitives : --------------------------------------- (section)  -->
For a subprimitive the evaluation of a expression is yet to be decided
<!--  (section) --------------------------------------- : todo -> expressions in sub primitives  -->


# **Spec**

## **Primitives**

A Primitive is a topmost construct of the format. A genc file is a list of primitives. This
primitves creates data or execution commands for genc. This commands require the data or data
generated by other commands. Primitve of the form 'gen_\<type\>' acts like the main control point of
the generator. genc will parse and create the relevant data but won't write the proper syntax unless
one of this primitives have the identifier for the data.

Primitive is of the form: 
```
@<type>(<identfier>) { 
    @<sub_primitve>(<sub_prim_arg>)
    $<field> = <expression>
    $<field> = <expression>
    $<field> = <expression>
    .
    .
    .
}
```

### **List of primitives and their feilds**

#### 01. **_table_** 
a table data contruct , to store related data. All the cells may contain the following three type 
of data:

- C/C++ identifier string (alpahnumeric + '_' charachter, shouldn't start with number)
- '_' just this string, describes that the cell is empty.
- anything enclosed in backticks(``) should be valid c syntax wherever it is composed.

- Fields
    - cols -> array of column identifier
    - rows -> array of table rows(a row is a array expression)
    


#### 02. **_enum_**
generates commands for c style enums

- Fields
    - value_name -> enum value identifiers 



#### 03. **_enum_to_string_table_**
takes a enum primitive and composes the enum_to_string_table global for it

- Fields
    - enum -> Identifier for enum primitive to consume

#### 04. **_func_types_**
creates types for functions. 

- Fields
    - identifier -> type identifier string
    - args -> arguments for the func type
    - ret -> return type string for the func type


#### 05. **_func_global_**
uses the func types and creates global pointer for the types

- Fields
    - identifier -> identifier string for the func global 
    - type -> func type string



#### 06. **_custom_**
custom go's text/template template to evaluate and generate c / cpp code.
    

- Fields
    - template -> the template string enclosed in backticks


## **Sub Primitives**

Only one for now, requires, states the requirement of other primitives

## **Operations**

Operations can be ablied to expressions, and the evaluate into other expression. This are 
syntactically of the form.
```
#<operation_type>(<expression>)
```
or 
```
#<operation_type>(<expression1>, <expression2>, .....)
```

### **List of Operations**

####  01. **_concat_**       
multi arg, does what it says, concats the final evaluation of the argument expressions

####  02. **_uppercase_**    
uppercase the final evaluation(FE for short) of argument

####  03. **_lowercase_**    
lowercase the FE of argument

####  04. **_snake2pascal_** 
if snake case converts to pascal case, supposedly

####  05. **_snake2camel_**  
if snake case converts to camel case, supposedly

####  06. **_pascal2snake_** 
if pascal case converts to snake case, supposedly

####  07. **_pascal2camel_** 
if pascal case converts to camel case, supposedly

####  08. **_camel2snake_**  
if camel case converts to snake case, supposedly

####  09. **_camel2pascal_** 
if camel case converts to pascal case, supposedly
